-- Warning to players --------------------------------------------------
   This document contains spoilers.  Part of the fun of these skills is
   supposed to be finding all the little hidden quirks and interactions
   that are set up.  If you are reading this, and don't want to ruin
   this part of the game for yourself, I suggest you stop reading now.
------------------------------------------------------------------------
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
==== All Races
General Notes
   The remort races are intended to be extremely powerful, but with
   weaknesses that can be exploited by members of other races.  I
   envision remort magic as being higly reactive, particularly when
   coming in contact with other remort magic, and I encourage adding
   unusual spell interactions wherever possible.  A common theme in
   the remort skills is that the remorts have a very thin illusion of
   control over their power.  Ideally, this illusion of control should
   be convincing enough that the remorts themselves believe they have a
   handle on things, until they drop their guard and everything comes
   crashing down around them in spectacular (and often catastrophicly
   destructive) ways.

==== Drow
General Notes
   Though able to see in the dark, the Drow are totally blind in the
   light, and the only way they are able to see is through use of the
   dark veil spell. Drow spells become more effective as the Drow
   becomes more negatively aligned.

Black Rift - Room
   Tears a rift in the ether through which one can pass into the other
   realm.  Not all survive this journey.  This will either be a spell
   similar to gate (or maybe teleport), or a gateway to a zone hostile
   to anyone but Drow.  All depends on whether someone's willing to
   create the zone.

Tripweb - Room, Door, Mob
   Room - Alerts the caster whenever a mob enters the room.
   Door - Alerts the caster whenever a mob passes through the
          door.
   Mob  - Attaches a strand of darksilk to the victim's leg.  Give
          the strand a good yank, hilarity ensues.

Venom - Mob, Canteen
   Mob     - Causes victim to become extremely ill. Every 1d3 short
             ticks the victim either begins itching madly, spasms and
             drops his wielded or held object, or vomits. In combat,
             itching or vomiting causes 1 to be added to pause.  When
             not in combat, 1d5 is added to pause for vomiting, and you
             must remove an object to scratch some random wear spot or
             you will continue to itch.  Vomiting lowers the victim's
             hunger stat, and you are unable to eat.
   Canteen - Liquid contents of canteens become affected by the venom
             spell.  Drinking from the canteen causes 4d4 damage to the
             drinker, and has a 1d3 chance of making him ill as
             described above.

Repel Light - Mob
   Causes any normally dark room the target is in to remain dark, even
   when a lantern or magical light source is present.

Wall of Darkness - Room, Door
   Room - Creates a wall of dark ether extending across the room
          which slams into any mobs in it's way, crushing them into the
          opposite wall. This must be done indoors.
   Door - The exit is impassable, and anything thrown or shot through
          it will either continue unaffected, double back and hit the
          attacker, double back and hit any of the mobs in the room at
          random, or warp to another place in the world and hit one of
          the mobs in that room at random.

Nightmare - Mob, Object, Room
   Mob    - Victim sees 0 - 3 copies of his opponent which show fake
            attack messages, additional opponents are summoned at
            random times for one turn, fear causes victim to fail
            skills sometimes, fake death messages are shown.  Victim is
            unable to stay asleep, with a 1d3 chance each hour of waking
            up screaming.
   Object - Object becomes haunted, and the owner becomes subject to
            Nightmare as if affected by it directly. There is a chance
            the object may become anti-drop or anti-remove for duration
            of the spell.
   Room   - Room becomes haunted, lights go out intermittently,
            critters show up and attack one of the occupants, occupants
            sleep restlessly.

Nyctophobia - Mob
   Causes the victim to flee when in dark places.

Acid bolt - Mob, Object, Door
   Mob          - Deals acid damage to the target.
   Door, Object - Destroys locks not protected from magic.

Death Wrap - Mob
   Deals crushing damage each short tick to the person afflicted by it.
   Damage delt increases with each short tick.

Dark Force - Mob
   A blast of dark power. Possibly more powerful as the alignment of
   the caster lowers.

Dark Web - Mob, Door, Room, Object
   Mob    - Prevents victim from leaving the room by any means other
            than transport spells from others. Possibly impedes other
            movement such as bash or block.
   Door   - Blocks passage through the entrance, possibly catches
            anyone who tries to use it.
   Room   - Catches everyone who enters the room, also provides an
            anchor for webwalk.  Alerts the caster when someone becomes
            stuck in the web.
   Object - Sticks an object to the ground, and glues it shut if it is
            a closable container.

Webwalk - Web
   Transports the caster to the location of one of his webs.

Shapeshift - Self
   Become one of several lesser creatures of the night. Taking one of
   these forms draws mana every battle tick at a rate depending on the
   power of the form. At least 50% of the form's skill must be learned
   to assume that shape, and the %lrnd of the form affects the amount
   of mana drain per tick. Drow can not wear armor while shapeshifting.

   Spider     - Able to climb.
   Snake      - Poisonous.
   Scorpion   - Poisonous.
   Toad       - Useless.
   Newt       - Useless.
   Lizard     - Useless.
   Mantis     - Useless.
   Salamander - Useless.
   Raven      - Able to fly.
   Crow       - Able to fly.
   Owl        - Able to fly, scan.
   Bat        - Able to fly, possibly blind, possibly able scan.
   Vulture    - Able to fly, possibly has butcher, or maybe can eat
                corpses.
   Manta ray  - Able to dive/swim, immobile and quickly dies out of
                water.
   Wolf       - Able to track.
   Rat        - Able to sneak, tail.
   Puma       - Able to sneak, tail.
   Bobcat     - Fighter, but considerably weak.
   Hyena      - Fighter, but considerably weak.
   Bear       - Fighter, but considerably weak.
   Wraith     - Fighter, fairly weak.
   War beast  - Sheer whup-ass power, this is a heftier critter than
                normal.
   Wyvern     - Likes to eat war beasts.
   Boar       - Rampage (allows Drow to use the tracking code for mobs).

Dark veil - Self
   Allows Drow to see in the light, must be cast in the dark.

Night shard - None
   Uses mana to create arrows on demand.

Spin - None
   Creates a random object from darksilk with random adjustments to the
   stat affects.  Object disintegrates if exposed to the light for an
   extended period of time.

Drain Blade - None
   Causes the Drow's weapon to draw a small amount of health from his
   opponent and into himself on every attack. This is permanently in
   effect, with the amount of drain is dependent on the level of
   knowledge in the skill.

==== Faerie
General Notes
   Faeries are quite frail, but they make up for it with a high
   dexterity and with spells capable of doing massive amounts of damage
   in a short time.  Faerie spells are more effective as the Faerie
   becomes more positively aligned.  Their HP maxes out around 350, but
   they have a large amount of mana, which can be charged up past the
   natural limit through use of spells such as disenchant.  Faeries
   have a permanent flight ability, and at higher levels they are less
   susceptible to clumsy attacks such as bash and kick (perhaps their
   DEX increases with level?)

Fasting - None
   Affects how much food/water the Faerie requires. At 100% they do not
   require food or water.

Faerie Flash - Room
   Blinds all non-faeries in the room and causes damage to people with
   infravision or similar vision altering spells enabled.

Lightstorm - Mob
   Blasts the target with thousands of tiny particles of energy, causing
   great damage, particularly if the victim is using vision altering
   spells. Multiple targets may be specified, and the damage divide
   among them.

Overgrowth - Self, Mob, Room, Door
   Self - Encases the caster in an impenetrable cocoon of plants.  The
          Faerie draws energy from the plants, regenerating health,
          mana, and MOV points and is protected from attack.
   Mob  - Encases the target in an impenetrable cocoon of plants.  The
          victim is unable to escape, even through magic, and can
          neither attack or be attacked by others in the room.
   Door - Covers an exit with vines, preventing use.
   Room - Covers all exits with vines, preventing entrance to or exit
          from the room, except by magical means.

Soulstar - Room
   Creates a spectacular point of ethereal light capable of
   illuminating several rooms.  It will also attract loose singularity
   ends which will either anchor directly in the room containing the
   star, or which will anchor nearby and slowly gravitate towards it.
   Magical plants may become uncontrollable in the vicinity of a
   Soulstar.

Wild vines - Mob
   Thorned vines lash out at the victim and take hold of a random limb,
   dealing a small amount of damage in the process.  More vines will
   continue to appear each battle round until the Faerie takes another
   action, or until the victim is completely trapped in the vines.  If
   the victim has a free hand, he may break up to his STR in vines each
   battle round, otherwise he can break one of his hands free if it is
   held by fewer than half his STR in vines.

Serenity - Room
   Ends any battle in the current room, with the added side effect of
   putting all mortals in the room into a deep sleep and destroying any
   spell effects in play, and any magical properties of equipment being
   used in the battle, transferring it's value in mana to the caster's
   pool as in disenchant.

Detect Fashion - None
   Allows the Faerie to become trendy and innately aware of fashion
   don'ts.

Absorb magic - Self
   Spells you are affected by are absorbed into your mana pool.  "Evil"
   spells will reduce the amount of mana in your pool, and have a
   chance of dealing damage.

Repel magic - Self
    Spells cast at the Faerie are reflected, possibly hitting the
    caster, possibly hitting another critter in the room, and possibly
    hurling the Faerie out of the room entirely.

Ethereal Singularity - Player
   Tears a hole in the ether which anchors itself locally and in
   several other rooms.  Non-faeries entering the room will be pulled
   into the singularity and out the other side.  Faeries may enter and
   leave a singularity at will, and if the singularity has more than
   two anchor points, they may select a destination point.  Entering a
   singularity that has the same source room as its destination room
   results in a bumpy trip followed by a bloody pulp splattered on the
   wall opposite the singularity's exit.  When used without specifying
   a target, the singularity anchors in a random number of random
   rooms.  When used with any number of PC targets a singularity is
   anchored locally and in the room of each target.

   Any kills resulting from a singularity will not give experience, and
   will not leave behind equipment or gold.  PCs killed by a
   singularity will not lose their equipment, but will lose the normal
   amount of XP for a death at their level.  Rather than waking up in
   the temple after such a death, they will awaken in a random spot in
   the realm.

Disenchant - Object
   Strip magical weapons, armor, and items of their special attributes.
   The power released by unbinding these attributes from the equipment
   is transfered into the caster's mana pool.

Enchant - Object
   Spells may be cast on the affected item.  The effects of these spells
   will be transferred to the wearer of the item. The effect is
   temporary, and multiple enchantment create an increasing possibility
   that the affected object will be destroyed.

Imbue - Object
   Causes the target object to gain the ability to cast a particular
   spell.  If the object is a potion or a canteen, drinking from it
   will trigger the spell effect.  Otherwise, the object can be used as
   a wand, and each cast of Imbue will add 1d4 charges to the object.

Magical Affinity - None
   As the Faerie becomes more in tune with the magical energies around
   him, he gains the ability to recognize magical properties of objects
   and creatures.  This manifests itself first as detect magic, then
   later adds a partial identify ability.

Permanency - Object
   Causes enchantments to become permanent.

Mortal Magic - None
   A tree of skills that allows the Faerie to learn various mortal
   spells for the purposes of binding them to equipment.  This does not
   allow the Faerie to cast these spells.

==== Ironclad
General Notes
   Ironclads retain any combat techniques the had in their mortal forms.
   They may hone these skills through use, though the process still uses
   practices.

Bind Armor - Self
   Allows the Ironclad to bind armor directly to his flesh and bone,
   making it both more effective and impossible to remove except by the
   unbind skill.

Graft Weapon - Self
   As with Bind Armor, Graft Weapon allows the Ironclad to meld with his
   weapon to make it more effective.  Depending on the weapon, this may
   render the hand on the affected arm useless.

Unbind - Self
   Allows an Ironclad to seperate from bound armor or grafted weapons.

Judge Quality - None
   Ironclads are able to intuitively judge the quality of a weapon.
   This ability becomes more accurate, and more detailed with practice.

Metallurgy - Object
   Allows the Ironclad to understand the properties of metals, and the
   techniques required to work them.  These skills, in addition to the
   smelting skill and forging skill set determine the quality of the
   finished product when working with these metals.

   If the Ironclad is knowledgeable in the proper combination of metals,
   he may be able to form alloys from separate metals.  The quality of
   the resulting alloy is dependent on how skilled the Ironclad is in
   metallurgy, and in the lore of the metals involved.

   Copper         - Plus tin for bronze.
   Tin            - Plus copper for bronze.
   Bronze         - Soft and heavy, but easy to work.  Bronze armor
                    provides only an AC stat, and bronze weapons
                    provide only a hit die roll.  Best used for
                    bludgeoning weapons.  Due to its low melting
                    temperature, bronze is particularly susceptible to
                    damage when bound to fire spells.  It may be folded
                    only a few times before it is destroyed.
   Iron           - Strong, heavy metal.  Moderately easy to work.
                    Provides a better AC or hit die stat than bronze,
                    but at the cost of a few DEX points.
   Steel          - Purified iron.  Stronger, lighter, and without the
                    DEX hit.
   Mithril        - Weak, light metal, which is very difficult to work
                    and very resistant to the damaging effects of spell
                    bindings.
   Aluminum       - Very light, very weak metal, which is moderately
                    difficult to work.  It is excellent for making
                    arrowheads, but not sturdy enough to make good
                    blades or armor.  When blended with iron or steel it
                    produces a lighter, but weaker alloy.
   Mercury        - Extremely difficult to work, and must be magicly
                    cold enchanted before it can be worked at all.
                    Mercury weapons and armor could have some magical
                    property, perhaps the ability to re-constitute into
                    other weapons. This re-constitution ability could be
                    used to have one piece of armor with variable
                    function, or simply for effect.  Mercury armor
                    could be designed to flow with the body of the
                    wearer, giving a DEX bonus, and allowing it to be
                    worn by shapeshifting Drow.
   Obsidianite    - Brittle, but highly heat resistant metal.  Very
                    difficult to work.  Useful for binding with heat
                    spells.  Armor made from obsidianite lowers the
                    wearer's heat AC.
   Minorite       - A.k.a Uranium.  Increadably toxic metal which is
                    nearly impossible to work without protection.  Only
                    Ogrue and their kin have the fortitude to use
                    Minorite weapons and armor, however due to its
                    deadly properties, Minorite weapons are extremely
                    effective.
   Lead           - Heavy, soft, and highly toxic metal.  Useful for
                    arrowheads and piercing weapons due to its poisonous
                    nature.
   Gold           - Heavy, soft metal which is difficult to work and
                    with a low melting temperature.  Fairly resilient to
                    binding with cold spells.
   Silver         - Light, soft metal.  Excellent for binding with
                    protective spells, but does not provide significant
                    protective capacity on its own.
   Titanium       - Strong, light metal.  Best used for armor and
                    cutting weapons.
   Ni'ite         - Light, hard, but brittle metal.  Best used for
                    piercing weapons, but makes extremely poor armor.
                    Very difficult to work.

Smelting - Object
   Allows the Ironclad to separate metal from ore.  The quality of metal
   produced depends on the skill level of the Ironclad.

Forging - None
   Skills in the Forging tree allow the Ironclad to hammer metal to form
   it into weapons or armor.  The quality of the product is related to
   the quality of the metal, the skill with which the Ironclad forges
   it, and the level of the Ironclad.

   The maximum power of the finished weapon depends on the material
   being used and its quality, the skill of the Ironclad, and the amount
   of time spent working the metal.

Engraving - Object
   Add custom descriptions to an item.

Folding - Object
   Strengthens a blade.  This skill increases the die roll for edged and
   piercing weapons.

Sharpen - Object
   Sharpens a blade to a keen edge.  This skill increases the die sides
   for edged and piercing weapons.

Combat Experience - None
   Allows the Ironclad to teach fighting techniques to other players,
   even if they do not have the necessary prerequisites.  The
   effectiveness of the teaching is dependent on the skill level the
   Ironclad has in Combat Experience, whether or not the player has the
   proper prerequisites, and the %lrnd the Ironclad has in the skill
   being taught.

   The skills themselves are taught through use, and still require
   spending practices (though the Ironclad may be a more efficient
   teacher than NPC teachers in some cases).  Ironclads may not practice
   a skill and teach it to another player at the same time.

==== Avintre
Familiar - None
   When Anitre remort to Avintre, they receive a familiar through
   performance of a binding ritual.  The familiar animal guides them to
   their power, with different animals opening different paths.  As the
   familiar grows in strength, so too do the Avintre's powers.
   However, the process works both ways.  If a familiar is killed, the
   Avintre is crippled until he is able to replace it.  The animal
   familiars and their powers are listed below.

   Fox, Hyena, Salamander          - Path of Fire
   Anaconda                        - Path of Water
   Wolf, Snow Leopard, White Tiger - Path of Ice
   Lizard, Rattlesnake             - Path of Dust
   Hawk, Eagle, Antelope           - Path of Air
   Raven, Owl                      - Path of Night
   Common Cat, Peacock, Deer       - Path of Life
   Cougar, Bear, Komodo            - Path of Power

Path of Fire - None
   The path of Fire allows control over natural and magical fire.  Fire
   under control of an Avintre does not necessarily need to obey the
   laws of physics.

   This path also gives its followers enhanced mental abilities,
   allowing greater control of self and manipulation of others.

Path of Water - None
   Followers of the path of Water are able to control the water around
   them, as well as create water on demand.  At level 5 Water Avintre
   become able to dive and breathe under water.

Path of Ice - None
   The path of Ice gives its followers control of natural and magical
   cold, and over motion.

Path of Dust - None
   The path of Dust is the path of natural destruction.  He who walks
   the path of Dust has the ability to accelerate or prevent natural
   wear on objects and creatures.

Path of Air - None
   The path of Air allows those who walk it to control and ride the
   currents.  Avintre following this path are also able to alter the
   density of themselves and the things around them.

Path of Night - None
   The path of Night permits stealthy movement and gives he who walks
   it power over the darkness.  Desiples of the Path of Night are able
   to control darkness, in contrast with the Drow, who are slaves to
   it.

Path of Life - None
   The path of Life gives its followers power over life and its
   functions.

Path of Power - None
   Avintre who walk the path of power are able to control force itself.
   Power skills ignore damage received modifiers.

Psychic Link - Familiar
   With time and training, the bond between the Avintre and his
   familiar strengthens allowing increasingly effective communication
   between the pair.  Initially, the familiar is able to understand
   simple commands, e.g. fetch, heel, attack.  Gradually, the Avintre
   becomes able to communicate more effectively, and the familiar
   becomes able to respond.  At the highest level of ability, the
   Avintre is able to see through the familiar's eyes, and give them
   complicated lists of instructions to follow whenever certain
   criteria are met.

Fusion - Familiar
   After level 10, the Avintre may learn to ritually meld with their
   Familiar, allowing them to become a single, more powerful being.  The
   resulting creature has the combined stats and attributes of Avintre
   and Familiar.  New abilities become available, and learned abilities
   become more effective.  This bond may be broken by the Avintre at any
   time, however the duo must rest before performing the ritual again.
   The amount of resting time needed depends on how long the bond has
   been maintained.

   Damage delt to the fused Avintre and Familiar is divided evenly
   between them, and if either participant falls below 0hp, he is
   killed, the bond is broken, and the other is left to fend for
   himself.

Union - Avintre Player
   Through the Union ritual, the Avintre are able to share their powers
   with eachother, forming a single large mana pool, giving each
   participant access to the others' powers, and making new powers
   available.  Fused Avintre may not enter into the Union ritual until
   they seperate from their Familiar, and Fused powers are not available
   to Avintre who follow other paths.

Create Fire (fire) - Mob, Object, Door
   Creates a fire that engulfs whatever it is cast on, even if it is not
   flammable.  This magical fire reacts only to living or magical
   beings, and will not damage inanimate objects.  The intensity of the
   fire is dependent on the level of the Avintre.

Inferno (fire;fused) - Mob, Object, Door, Room
   Creates an intense magical fire which is capable of destroying or
   killing anything it contacts within a few rounds.  The effect may be
   localized to a single target, or spread throughout the entire room.
   In the latter case, Fused Avintre following the paths of Fire, Ice,
   or Water are immune to the blaze.

Immolation (fire) - Self
   Surrounds the Avintre with a shield of intense heat, which greatly
   reduces the damage received from cold attacks, nullifies heat
   attacks, and which causes burns to anyone who comes in contact with
   the shield.

   The duration of this effect is increased if it absorbs a fire attack,
   and decreased if it absorbs an ice attack.

Dreamwalk (fire) - Player
   Allows the Avintre to enter the dream of a sleeping player and
   interact with them.  Players can die if their representations are
   killed within the dream, with the normal consequences, though killing
   the dreamer is not necessarily safe for the dreamwalker.  This skill
   is only usable while the Avintre is asleep.

Empathic Invitation (fire) - Player
   Allows the Avintre to hold conference with any number of other
   sleeping players within the caster's own dream.  This skill is only
   usable while the Avintre is asleep.

Feedback (fire) - Player
   Sends a psychic shockwave back to anyone who has a psychic link with
   the Avintre.

Hypnotic Dance (fire) - Room
   Hypnotizes anyone in the room who can see the Avintre, placing them
   under his control.  Only one creature will be hypnotized at a time,
   and the Avintre is not able to control which creature is affected.

Confusion (fire) - Mob
   Causes the victim to become confused.  Confused creatures will have
   difficulty choosing the desired target for their actions, and may
   sponteniously switch sides in battle.

Water Trick (water) - Mob
   Creates a bubble of water around the target.  If the target is not
   able to breathe under water, they take damage from drowning.  The
   bubble will move along with the victim, however they may escape it
   through magical transport, or using a sharp weapon to pop the bubble.

Gyser (water;fire) - Mob
   Causes a piller of boiling water to erupt beneath the target.

Rain (water) - Room
   Causes rain to fall.  Fires in the room may be extinguished.

Flood (water;fused) - Room, Canteen
   Creates a torrent of water which washes away anything in the room
   that isn't nailed down.  As long as the Avintre is able to sustain
   the spell, the flood continues, expanding out in all directions, and
   exacting an increasing amount of mana for each affected room.  With
   exception of the outer edge of the flood, all affected rooms are
   considered underwater, and anyone in them needs to be able to breathe
   in the water or take damage from drowning.

   Additionally, this spell can be used to refill your canteen.  Don't
   forget to open it first.

Thunderstorm (water;power) - Room
   Creates a powerful rain storm in the area.  Rarely lightning may
   strike.

Fog (water;air) - Room
   Creates dense fog in the room, limiting visibility.

Slow (ice) - Mob
   Causes the victim to move more slowly, negating haste effects and
   lowering dextarity for the duration of the spell.

Chill (ice) - Room, Object, Mob, Door
   Room - Lowers the temperature in the room to a few degrees above
          freezing.  Creatures in the room not resistant to the cold may
          fail in their attempts to act due to shivering.
   Mob - As above, except the effect is localized to a particular
         target, and hence is more effective.  The target may take a
         slight amount of damage due to the low surrounding temperature.
         If we're feeling ambitious, freezing the contents of the
         target's canteen(s) would be a nice touch, as well.
   Object - Causes an object to become extremely cold.  Only an Ice
            Avintre will be able to touch the item without taking
            damage.  When cast on weapons, this acts as an improved
            frost blade.  When cast on canteens, the contents freeze.
   Door - Anyone who tries to open or close a door affected by chill
          will take damage from the cold.  People attempting to pick a
          chilled lock will also take damage, and may additionally lose
          some of their lockpicking ability.

Ice Shield (ice) - Self
   Creates a wall of ice that is capable of fully deflecting all attacks
   during any turn that the Avintre takes no other action (other than
   the automated melee combat).  After the shield absorbs a certian
   amount of damage, it is destroyed, sending shrapnel flying in all
   directions.

Ice Spear (ice) - None
   Creates a spear of ice that can be wielded or thrown.  The spear can
   be maintained as long as it is in the posession of an Ice Avintre,
   otherwise it quickly melts.  This weapon affects anyone who touches
   it as if it were affected by chill.

Ice Cage (ice) - Mob
   Causes large pillers of ice to form around the target, trapping them
   and preventing them from acting until the pillers are destroyed.

Freeze (ice) - Mob
   Encases the target in a large block of ice, preventing any sort of
   movement.  This effect requires mana to maintain, and the block
   quickly melts if not maintained by the Avintre or through a source of
   cold.

Dart of Ice (ice) - Mob
   Flings several very sharp icicles at the target.  The number and
   strength of the icicles increases with the Avintre's level.

Hail (ice) - Mob
   Pelts the target with hailstones.  The number and strength of the
   hailstones increases with the Avintre's level.

Ice Wall (ice) - Door
   Creates (suprise) a wall of ice.  If cast on an open exit that exit
   becomes blocked.  If cast on a closed door, the door is effectively
   baracaded, and can not be opened except by bashing it down.

Ice Slick (ice) - Room
   Covers the floor with ice.  Anyone who enters the room will continue
   sliding through the opposite exit.  If there is no exit in that
   direction, they will crash into the wall and take a small amount of
   damage.  Creatures in the room may lose their balance if they move
   suddenly.

Snow (ice) - Room
   Causes snow to fall.

Snowstorm (ice) - Room
   Causes heavy snow to fall.  After an hour it begins to accumulate on
   the ground and normal fires are extinguished.

Blizzard (ice;air) - Room
   Creates a powerful ice storm, damaging everyone in the room other
   than Ice and Ice-Air Avintre.  The intense winds may blow creatures
   or objects out of the room.  Flying creatures are always blown from
   the room, take increased damage, and may be knocked out of the sky.
   If a weapon is thrown from the room, it acts as a thrown projectile.
   In the case of high level Ice-Air unions, the effect may spill over
   into the adjacent rooms.

Artic Blast (ice;air) - Mob
   Attacks the target with an extremely cold blast of air, causing heavy
   damage.  In some cases this may leave the victim stunned for several
   rounds.

Deterioration (dust) - Mob, Object, Door, Room
   Accelerates the deterioration of magical effects on the target.
   Spells which cause damage over time will not do an increased amount
   of damage per period, however spells which have a periodical mana
   cost will cost more to maintain.

Rust (dust) - Object
   Damages objects; weapons become dulled, armor weakens.  This effect
   has no time limit, but is not cumulative, and can be reversed by the
   Path of Life spell Restoration.

Rot (dust) - Plant
   Kills plants, including magical plants, and causes them to rapidly
   decompose.

Cavein (dust) - Room, Door
   When underground this causes the ceiling to collapse, injuring anyone
   in the room.  If cast on a door the cavein is localized to that exit,
   blocking the way untill the rubble is cleared.

Gust (air) - Mob
   Creates a powerful blast of air that hurls the victim against the
   wall.
   
Wind Shield (air) - Mob
   Creates a whirlwind around the target which will deflect projectiles
   off in another direction.

Whirlwind (air) - Mob, Object, Room
   Creates a whirlwind around the target, lifting it off the ground.
   This whirlwind is under the control of the Avintre, and can move in
   any direction he wishes.  If there is no exit in that direction, the
   whirlwind slams the victim into the wall and dissipates.  The Avintre
   can also throw out anything caught in the wind.  If an object is
   thrown, it behaves as if the "throw" skill were used on it.  If a
   creature is thrown, it behaves as if the "hurl" skill were used on
   it.

Mass Adjustment (air) - Mob, Object
   Causes the target to become much lighter, allowing heavy objects to
   be lifted and making skills such as climb more effective.
   Unfortunately, the same effect makes skills such as hurl more
   effective against the target of Mass Adjustment.

Levitate (air;fused) - Mob
   Allows the target to fly at will.

Cloak of Darkness (night) - Object
   When an affected object is worn around the body, the wearer becomes
   invisible in the dark even to people who can normally see in the
   dark.

Stardust (night) - Object, Mob
   Causes the target to glow in the dark.

Darkvision (night) - None
   Enables the Avintre to see in the dark.  At 100% the Avintre can see
   in dark as in day.  At lower levels the Avintre is only able to get a
   partial view of his surroundings, and may miss things conceiled in
   darkenss.

Starlight (night) - Room
   Illuminates the room.

Starburst (night) - Mob
   Blasts the target with tiny but powerful darts of luminescent white
   energy.

Nova (night;fused) - Mob
   A far more powerful version of Starburst.

Novastorm (night;fused) - Room
   Bombards the entire room with Novas, damaging all opponants.

Detect Life (life) - Self
   Allows the Avintre to become aware of living things, even if he
   cannot see them.

Animate Weapon (life) - Weapon
   Imbdues a weapon with life.  The weapon will float along side the
   Avintre and assist him in combat.

Restoration (life) - Object
   Dispels the effects of the Path of Dust spell Rust.

Metabolic Control (life) - Person, Animal
   Increases or decreases the metabolic rate of the target.  Increasing
   the metabolic rate has the effect of reducing reaction times, and
   increasing recovery rate, however it also causes the target to burn
   calories more quickly, and increases the rate at which poison takes
   effect.  Decreasing the metabolic rate has the opposite effect,
   slowing poison and conserving energy, but making the target
   sluggish, and slow to heal.  At either extreme, there is a risk the
   stress on the body will be too great, resulting in a heart attack or
   other organ failure.

Stasis (life;ice) - Person, Animal
   An advanced form of Metabolic Control, Stasis allows an Avintre to
   completely halt all bodily functions of a sleeping creature without
   risk of death.

Disrupt Equilibrium (life) - Mob
   Degrades the victim's sense of balance, making them more susceptible
   to skills such as trip, and making even mundane tasks such as walking
   difficult.

Revive (life) - Mob
   Negates spell effects such as sleep, flesh to stone, metabolic
   control, etc.

Renew (life) - Mob
   Restores some health, movement, hunger and thirst in the target.

Rejuvinate (life;fused) - Mob
   The target's health, mana, movement, hunger and thirst are restored
   up to their maximum levels or up to the amount of mana the Avintre
   has.  This ability can not be used on the Avintre himself, but may
   be used on his familiar.

Dissipate Poison (life) - Mob, Object
   Allows the Avintre to nullify poisons present in food or liquids,
   or in the body of himself or others.

Smite (life;fused) - Mob
   High level Avintre who walk the path of life are able to instantly
   slay any creature they wish, however they receive no experience, and
   such actions may alienate their familiar.

Force Explosion (power;fire) - Mob, Room
   Mob  - Hits the victim with a powerful explosive blast capable of
          knocking them off their feet.
   Room - Centers the effect within the Avintre's opponants, striking
          each with a slightly less powerful blast.

Energy Containment (power) - Self
   The Avintre creates a null energy orb, and all magical attacks
   directed at the Avintre are instead absorbed into the orb.  The orb
   requires mana each battle round to maintain, and if the Avintre stops
   maintaining the orb at any time, the amount of energy the orb
   absorbed is released and spread among the occupants of the room.  The
   maintenance cost of the orb increases with the amount of energy it
   has absorbed.

Retribution (power) - Self
   If the Avintre dies during the current battle while using
   Retribution, all damage done to him while Retribution was active
   strikes the person dealing the killing blow.  Retribution requires a
   maintenance cost which increases with the amount of damage incurred.

Powersink (power) - Room
   Creates an ethereal sinkhole which absorbs any spell effects in the
   room, and which pulls in lingering effects from nearby rooms.  If one
   end of a portal enters this sinkhole, anyone attempting to use the
   other end of the portal may either be transported to a random
   location, or flung into the void, killing them instantly.  If an
   Ethereal Singularity makes contact with the sinkhole, it creates a
   huge multi-room explosion which destroys any magical effects it
   contacts, and which has a 1d(distance)+1 chance of killing the people
   inside the room.  Anyone inside the Singularity at the time is
   immediately shredded as if they had entered a Singularity with both
   ends anchored to the same point.

Doom Orb (power) - Player
   Creates a large orb of energy that  will slowly navigate from room to
   room untill it finds the target, at which point it will explode.  The
   orb can not enter anyplace that is haven or anti-magic.  The orb
   requires mana to maintain, and if the Avintre runs out of mana before
   the orb reaches its target, it will simply explode in the room it is
   currently in.

Death Orb (power;fused) - Player
   A comblination of the Doom Orb and Powersink spells, this orb seeks
   out its target, becoming more powerful as it absorbs spell effects
   along the way.  This orb interacts with Etherial Singularities in the
   same way that a Powersink does.  Death Orb has a maintenance cost
   similar to Doom Orb which does not increase as it becomes more
   powerful.

Hold (power) - Mob
   Allows the Avintre to refocus force to exactly counter any movement
   the victim attempts to make, effectively paralyzing them.

==== Rocktroll
General Notes
   Rocktrolls are highly resistant to edged and piercing weapons,
   however their great mass causes them to move more slowly.  They more
   than make up for this shortcoming in sheer physical power.

Tunnel - Room
   In some situations Rocktrolls are able to tunnel underground to
   reach areas inaccessible to others.  The tunnel collapses in on
   itself behind the Rocktroll.

Anchor - Self
   The Rocktroll binds himself to the earth, preventing others from
   moving or lifting him.  Unfortunately, also prevents the Rocktroll
   from moving until he releases his anchor, making him an easier
   target and lowering his chances of successful melee attacks.

   If a Rocktroll using this ability is pinned to the ground such as by
   the Entity's Exert Force ability, he becomes unable to break the
   anchor until he is released.

Bury - Mob, Object, Room
   Mob, Object - Opens a pit directly beneath the target, causing it to
                 fall in if not flying or suspended by some other means.
                 Once the pit has closed, exit is only possible by
                 magical means (or tunneling, if the target is a
                 Rocktroll).
   Room        - As above, except the pit spans the entire floor of the
                 room.

Collapse - Room
   In underground areas, the Rocktroll can bring the ceiling down on
   everyone in the room.

Harden - Self
   Allows the Rocktroll to increase the strength and density of his
   skin, lowering natural AC and increasing bare-handed HD.

Solidify - Self
   Allows the Rocktroll to literally become stone.  This has the same
   effect as the mortal Flesh to Stone spell, but the Rocktroll is able
   to control the transformation, and change back at will.

Charge - Mob
   The Rocktroll rushes at his opponent, using the mass of his own body
   as a weapon.  The Rocktroll must spend two rounds recovering after
   using this attack.

Megacrush - Mob
   As in Charge, the Rocktroll rushes his opponent, however just before
   he hits, the Rocktroll leaps into the air and attempts to land on the
   victim.

Slam Punch - Mob
   Deals a heavy blow to the victim's chest, which knocks the wind out
   of them for several rounds, and may in fact knock them entirely out
   of the room.

Hammer Fist - Self
   Allows the Rocktroll to transmute his fist into a giant stone hammer.
   Any weapon held in the transmuted hand either falls to the ground or
   is destroyed.

Baracade - Self
   Forms a six-inch thick stone shield on the Rocktroll's arm, which
   completely protects the Rocktroll from frontal attacks until
   destroyed.  Supporting this shield prevents the Rocktroll from taking
   any other action.

Create Earth wall - Door
   Causes the ground to raise up, blocking access through the target
   exit.

Smash - Mob, Object, Door
   The Rocktroll attempts to crush the target into the ground, or break
   a door off of its hinges.

Giant Growth - Self
   Allows the Rocktroll to grow to immense size, increasing his strength
   and mass, but decreasing his dexterity in the process.  In this
   state, the Rocktroll may lift and carry around normal-sized
   creatures.

Toss - Mob
   The Rocktroll is able to grab the victim and throw it aside.  If the
   Rocktroll is in giant form at the time, he may throw the creature
   several rooms away, most likely killing them in the process.

Backhand - Mob
   The Rocktroll slams his hand against the victim, sending them flying
   across (or out of) the room.

==== Entity
General Notes
   Entities are creatures manifested of pure thought.  They have no
   physical form, and are vulnerable to attack only because they
   believe they have been injured.  As they become more familiar with
   their new form, they gradually gain resistance to physical harm.
   The ethereal energy caused by the use of magic interacts in strange
   ways with Entities, and contact with it yields unpredictable
   results, particularly when dealing with the more potent powers of
   other remorts.

   Entities never fully lose the self-image of their previous form, and
   as such they still find themselves bound by many of the physical
   laws of nature.  Most develop the ability to fly, and if they
   concentrate they may be able to pass through doors and some walls,
   but if their concentration is broken they may suddenly find
   themselves fused with the wall itself.

   Entities maintain their presence with the same energy they use to
   exert their powers, and as such use of their abilities drains their
   "health" rather than a pool of mana.

   Entities may have several effects in play at once, but each
   additional effect degrades their concentration, making all effects
   less potent, and possibly causing them to back-fire.

Focus - Mob
   The Entity forms a psychic link with other creatures, allowing him
   to focus other spells on that target.  The range as well as the
   number of simultenious links depends on the level of the Entity and
   the level of the targets.  When focused on a target, the Entity is
   less in-tune with their immediate surroundings, making them more
   vulnerable to attack.

   If the attack is detected, there is a chance that the link will
   back-fire (unbeknownst to the aggressor) and merely give them the
   illusion that their link is functioning.  If the victim is another
   Entity, he will be able to redirect any of the attacks back to the
   aggressor.  Otherwise, the victim is simply alerted to the attack and
   to the location of the Entity.

   For activities that require extreme concentration, such as passing
   through matter, an Entity may turn his focus solely on himself.
   Creating this internal link allows them to deaden the noise of the
   outside world, and helps ensure that they will not be interrupted at
   a crucial moment.  However, nothing is absolute.

Influence - Focused mob
   Allows the Entity to plant a suggestion in the target's mind.  The
   next time the target tries to take a particular kind of action, they
   will do so according to the Entity's suggestion.  E.g. if the Entity
   tries to influence the target to walk north, the next time the
   target attempts to move, he may go north rather than in the intended
   direction.

Confound - Focused mob
   The victim is prevented from taking any action of his own free will.

Force - Focused mob
   Forces the victim to take whatever action the Entity wishes.

Silence - Focused mob
   Prevents the victim from speaking.  Does not impede psychic
   abilities.

Terrify - Focused mob
   Causes the victim to flee in panic from anything they see.  An
   encounter with fluffy bunnies are just as, if not more, horrible
   than running across a rabid pack of hundred-headed 900 ft tall
   fire-breathing hydras.

Agony - Focused mob
   Causes the victim to experience extreme pain in every part of his
   body.  Depending on the intensity and duration of the effect, the
   victim may fumble whatever action he is taken, crumple to the
   ground, fall unconscious, or even immediately die of shock.
   
Deafen - Focused mob
   Overloads the victim's aural centers, causing them to hear sounds as
   nothing but garbled noises.

Blind - Focused mob
   Overloads the victim's visual centers, jumbling the images they see
   until they are incomprehinsable.

Weaken - Focused mob
   Slowly drains away the victim's strength and ability to heal for the
   duration of the link.

Enfeeble - Focused mob
   Causes the victim to lose skill ability with each use.

Calm - Focused mob
   Instills perfect focus and clarity in the target, greatly improving
   skill success, fighting ability, and recovery rate.

Fortify - Focused mob
   Strengthens the target's resistance to mental attacks.

Leach - Focused mob
   Allows the Entity to gain (or lose!) experience from battles the
   target is fighting.  Leaching from multiple targets reduces the
   amount of XP drawn per target, rather than increase the overall
   experience gained.

Derange - Focused Mob
   Causes the victim to go insane, causing them to attack friends and
   creatures far more powerful than they are, to consume poisonous food
   and drink, and to discard or destroy their own equipment.

Mask Hunger - Focused mob
Mask Thirst - Focused mob
   Prevents the victim from realizing they are suffering from hunger or
   thirst.  This does not negate the actual effects of hunger or thirst,
   however.

Mask Damage - Focused mob
   Prevents the victim from realizing they are being injured.

Exert Force - Object, Mob, Door
   Object - Allows the Entity to pin objects to the ground, or levitate
            objects they can not carry.
   Mob    - Knocks the target back, or prevents them from moving.
   Door   - Erects a wall of force which prevents creatures and
            projectiles from entering the room by that means.

Crushing Force - Object, Mob
   When cast on an object, Crushing Force may utterly destroy the
   object.  When cast on a mob, it deals massive amounts of damage to
   the victim, and may destroy items he is carrying.  Crushing force
   uses up to 95% of the Entity's energy, and the Entity must have at
   least 90% of their maximum energy available just to cast it.

Psychic Crush - Mob
   Stuns the victim for 2-4 battle rounds.

Create Illusion - Room, Object, Mob, Door
   The Entity is able to construct illusionary surroundings around
   himself.  This illusion can be maintained indefinitely, however it
   uses the Entity's energy as long as it is in existence.  The amount
   of energy used dependent on the size of the illusion, and the level
   of concentration on the part of the Entity.  As time passes, the
   amount of energy required to maintain the illusion gradually
   decreases, until it requires none at all.  It still, however,
   detracts from the Entity's focus.

Mental Barrier - Self
   Erects a protective barrier around the Entity capable of deflecting
   attacks and redirecting spell effects.

Pass - Self
   With proper concentration, the Entity may temporally throw off their
   corporal self-image, allowing them to pass directly through doors
   and some walls.  Unfortunately, any interruption in their
   concentration means destruction, as they suddenly find themselves
   trying to occupy the same space as the object they are attempting to
   pass through.

Aural Specter - Object
   The Entity can add a pre-recorded message to an object, which will be
   spoken by the object (optionally in the Entity's voice) when certain
   criteria are met.

Visual Specter - None
   Creates a floating eye, who's movement may be controlled by the
   Entity, and which relays visual (but not aural) information back to
   the Entity.  The eye moves silently, and thus has a natural sneak
   ability.  If it is destroyed, the feedback will deal damage to the
   Entity, and possibly cause him to lose control of some of his other
   effects.
